# New publications 2025 

- Research, data, policies, plans, guidelines etc
- Any comments or suggestions? Contact: Armin.Wagner@giz.de
- For 2024, please refer to https://github.com/giz-t-hub/2024/


### April <a name="April"></a>

- <b> Data and statistics </b>
  - <b> Official Development Assistance (ODA) Trends </b> Data as of April 2025: https://data.one.org/analysis/official-development-assistance - *Official Development Assistance or “global aid” is a transfer of money and resources from predominantly richer countries to developing countries to help fight poverty and support economic development.*
  - <b> Global Trade Outlook and Statistics - April 2025 </b> WTO:  https://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_outlook25_e.pdf - *The WTO’s “Global Trade Outlook and Statistics” presents the WTO Secretariat's forecasts for world trade in 2025 and 2026. Breakdowns of merchandise and commercial services trade by sector and region are provided, together with details on leading traders.*
  - <b> World seaborne trade by type of cargo </b> UN Trade: https://unctadstat.unctad.org/datacentre/dataviewer/US.SeaborneTrade - *New data set on maritime trade statistics on the country level from 2000 onwards.*
  - <b> USA:  Work from home (WFH) </b> The U.S. Census Bureau // Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) with results from Work from home (WFH) supplemental: data spreadsheet at https://www.census.gov/hfp/btos/downloads/WFH_Supplement_Table.xlsx;  survey questionnaire with Work From Home Supplement at https://www.census.gov/hfp/btos/downloads/BTOSContentV311.20.24Cycle2WFHSupplement.pdf; methodology used for the Business Trends and Outlook Survey: https://www.census.gov/hfp/btos/methodology
    
- <b> Urban mobility </b>
  - <b> Assessing Walking Routes for Wheelchair Accessibility at a Historic District in Saudi Arabia to Enhance Social Sustainability </b> Nawaf Alhajaj, Amer Habibullah: https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/17/8/3636# - *This study aims to assess the extent to which historic districts’ walking routes are physically accessible for wheelchair users in the Jeddah Historic District, a UNESCO World Heritage site in Saudi Arabia. As a method, it developed a wheelchair accessibility assessment checklist (consisting of 14 assessment indicators) to evaluate 14 walking routes in the Historic District of Jeddah, accompanied by an observation strategy (consisting of five questions) to understand wheelchair users’ behavior using these routes.*
  - <b> Dynamic fleet management of waterborne vessels with mixed passenger and parcel services </b> Heisuke Miyoshi, Yimeng Zhang, Shadi Sharif Azadeh & Oded Cats: https://www.nature.com/articles/s44333-025-00035-7 - *Abstract: "The integration of mobility and logistics in transport networks offers solutions to urban transportation challenges such as traffic congestion and last-mile delivery. In cities with abundant waterways, electric waterborne vessel systems can enhance efficiency by serving both passenger and parcel demands. This study develops a dynamic fleet management model that optimizes vessel operations using a rolling horizon approach, updating plans upon new request arrivals. A mathematical model is formulated to solve a pick-up and delivery problem for heterogeneous services, complemented by an insertion heuristic for computational efficiency. Numerical experiments for Fredrikstad, Norway, compare the proposed approach with conventional fixed-purpose vessels under varying demand scenarios. Results show that the insertion heuristic significantly reduces computation time while maintaining high solution quality. Additionally, mixed-purpose vessels outperform fixed-purpose vessels in efficiency and service levels across all demand conditions."*
  - <b> Incorporating the inertia effect into a route choice model using fare transaction data from a large-scale public transport network </b> Jacqueline Arriagada, 
Carlo Prato, Marcela Munizaga: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856425000953 - *Understanding the route choice behaviour of public transport passengers is essential for explaining passenger preferences and predicting demand. A growing body of literature has focused on public transport systems without considering the relationship between choices in a new transport context and the inertia effect (the tendency to repeat familiar alternative routes). This is because significant changes in transport systems are infrequent and it is difficult to observe the same group of individuals before and after the change. This study aims to address these challenges by using revealed preferences collected through smart card data from the public transport system incorporating a new metro line in Santiago, Chile.*
  - <b> Urban freight activity implications from emerging food industry establishments in an on-demand economy: Evidence from India </b> Suprava Mishra, Agnivesh Pani, Ivan Sanchez-Diaz, Heleen Buldeo Rai: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S073988592500023X - *Abstract: "Urban freight activity generated by the food industry has received surprisingly little research attention despite the unprecedented changes in food ordering behavior because of the advancement of technology. Not only did more consumers take advantage of the options offered online, but it also resulted in the diversification of the food industry into three establishment types: (i) in-person dining restaurants, (ii) hybrid restaurants, and (iii) dark kitchens. While the traditional in-person dining restaurants continue to be major freight trip generators, the emergence of tight-knit networks of small, delivery-only establishments called ‘dark kitchens’ have magnified the overall freight impacts from the food industry. This study attempts to contribute to this emerging research gap in urban freight research by conducting a freight survey in Delhi (India) targeting the above-mentioned food industry establishments to compare and contrast the evolving freight traffic impact generated by hybrid restaurants/dark kitchens relative to the traditional in-person dining restaurants"*
  - <b> The evolution of urban transport systems. From sustainable mobility to the economics of experience </b> *(Ewolucja systemów transportu w miastach. Od zrównoważonej mobilności do ekonomii doświadczeń)* G. Dydkowski, A. Urbanek: https://sbc.org.pl/dlibra/publication/1013419 - *Perspectives on urban mobility trends and developments in Poland*
  - <b> Decarbonising last-mile deliveries: When the national strategy fails to meet local needs and expectations </b> Daniela Paddeu: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856425000631 - *Abstract: "This paper explores views and perceptions of 35 local authorities towards potential solutions to decarbonise last-mile deliveries in England and presents their perspectives towards potential challenges and drivers to their implementation. The methodological approach is based on co-design and participatory methods to enable local authorities with different knowledge and expertise to produce, through back-casting, a series of specific actions that can support the implementation of effective measures to decarbonise last-mile deliveries. Results were presented to and stress-tested with 25 councillors, to understand to what extent sustainable transport policies for last-mile deliveries meet political will. Findings show that behaviour change, and collaborative schemes have the potential to have a stronger impact than new and clean technologies in reducing carbon emissions from last-mile deliveries, even though their implementation would be more difficult and less politically appealing."*
  - <b> Neighborhood public transit services: Situational analysis of bus-based public transport supply in Delhi </b> Revathy Pradeep and Bhaumik Gowande / ICCT: https://theicct.org/publication/neighborhood-public-transit-services-situational-analysis-of-bus-based-public-transport-supply-in-delhi-apr25/  - *ICCT India collaborated with the Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi to strategize and support the city’s transport department in developing a framework for the efficient deployment of electric buses in smaller routes of Delhi’s neighborhoods. This paper provides a comprehensive situational analysis of Delhi’s public transit system, with an emphasis on the accessibility of current bus services and identifies key opportunities for the deployment of neighborhood transit solutions with electric buses and proposes a framework to improve intrazonal connectivity.*
  - <b> Publication: Clean Air for Hanoi: What will it Take? </b> World Bank: https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/037449dd-735d-4b2a-80e7-8fb33b092595  - *Vietnam has achieved great progress in both economic growth and poverty reduction; nevertheless, this economic growth is accompanied by an increase in resource use and other negative externalities, such as air pollution. This contributes significantly to environmental degradation and public health issues, particularly regarding air quality in some major cities in the country, including Hanoi, the capital of Vietnam. The current air quality situation in Hanoi and its neighboring provinces of Bac Ninh and Hung Yen necessitates urgent action to reduce pollution levels, and, consequently, population exposure to harmful PM2.5 concentrations. Newly announced air quality-related policies, which will be in effect between 2021 and 2030, are an important step towards decreasing air pollution but do not appear to be sufficient to protect health in the medium-term, that is, until 2030. To explore management options available to policy makers in the near term, this study has developed new data and alternative scenarios analyzing the impact of various air quality measures and policies. Opportunities to achieve national standards across Hanoi and its surrounding areas were identified and provide input into policy discussions on an Air Quality Management (AQM) Plan for Hanoi and its surrounding provinces, as well as for Vietnam in general.*

- <b> Social issues </b>
  - <b> Exploring the focus and gaps in mobility justice-related surveys. A scoping review approach </b> Sindi Haxhija, Mohamed Abouelela, David Duran-Rodas: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198225000909 - *Abstract: "In mobility, justice is often assessed through distribution principles, focusing on large-scale accessibility analyses. However, these evaluations are normative and lack subjective insights. Surveys offer an opportunity to capture individual beliefs and extract subjective evaluations of justice, yet no standard approach exists for measuring mobility justice through surveys. This scoping review examines 56 studies that use surveys to understand perceptions of mobility justice, identifying key focus areas and highlighting gaps in the research."*
  - <b> Transport and quality of life: The car and its link to subjective well-being, health, and life domains </b> Kostas Mouratidis: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X25001507?via%3Dihub - *Despite the harmful impact of automobility on the planet and human societies, car ownership is on the rise globally. However, the contribution of car-based transport to quality of life remains unclear. This paper examines how car ownership relates to subjective well-being, health, and life domains based on three-wave longitudinal data from Athens, Greece and Oslo, Norway.*
  - <b> Transport poverty vulnerability index: Making use of standardised databases </b> Kaja Primc, Darja Zabavnik, Renata Slabe-Erker, Miha Dominko: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214629625001227 - *Abstract: "Despite its importance for socio-economic equity and urban planning, transport poverty is a complex issue that lacks clear measurement tools. The paper seeks to bridge this gap by introducing a composite indicator to assess transport poverty vulnerability in the European Union. The newly constructed vulnerability index for transport poverty, which includes direct and indirect dimensions of affordability, accessibility and mobility from Eurostat and the World Bank, identifies EU-27 countries facing the greatest challenges. Further, the new index is compared with an augmented index that adjusts for externalities such as environmental impacts and demographic factors, providing a more nuanced analysis. The findings reveal a shift in the ranking of countries when the augmented index is considered."*
  - <b> Where is morality on wheels? Decoding large language model (LLM)-driven decision in the ethical dilemmas of autonomous vehicles </b> Zixuan Xu, Neha Sengar, Tiantian Chen, Hyungchul Chung, Oscar Oviedo-Trespalacios: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214367X25000572 - *Abstract: "Large Language Models have attracted global attention due to their capabilities in understanding, knowledge synthesis, and generating contextually relevant responses, mimicking certain aspects of human reasoning. Although LLMs have demonstrated feasibility in performing autonomous driving tasks in simulated and real-world environments, little is known about their safety and ethical decision-making. To address these questions, we propose a novel framework for evaluating and interpreting the ethical decision-making mechanism of LLM-driven autonomous vehicles. Our study investigates the ethical dilemma of prioritizing saving pedestrians or passengers inspired by the Moral Machine Experiment."*
- <b> Climate and environment </b>
  - <b> Does cutting airport slots reduce climate impact? The case of Amsterdam airport </b> Pere Suau-Sanchez, Frédéric Dobruszkes, Giulio Mattioli: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361920925001543?via%3Dihub - *Abstract: "This study evaluates the effectiveness of airport slot reductions as a strategy for mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, focusing on Amsterdam Schiphol Airport. Following the Dutch Government’s decision to reduce slots from 500,000 to 440,000, we analyse various risk scenarios using the D’Hondt method for proportional slot allocation and the Fuel Estimation in Air Transportation (FEAT) model to estimate fuel consumption. Strategies include proportional slot cuts, prioritising short-haul flights, and shifting to rail alternatives. Results show that short-term emissions reductions are modest and do not scale with slot reductions unless long-haul flights are significantly curtailed. "*
  - <b> Greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution from global shipping, 2016–2023 </b> Xiaoli Mao, Zhihang Meng, Bryan Comer, and Tom Decker:  - *Building on a previous analysis that reported global ship emissions between 2013 and 2015, this report assesses ship emissions over 2016–2023 using updated, state-of-the-science methods, providing new insights into the maritime shipping sector’s recent climate and environmental performance. The data presented in this report highlight the urgency of accelerating the adoption of zero-emission fuels and technologies to align the shipping sector with global climate goals.*

    
- <b> Transport infrastructure </b>
  - <b> Regional freight transport infrastructure and policy in Southeast Asia: An overview </b> ITF: https://www.itf-oecd.org/sites/default/files/regional_freight_transport_infrastructure_and_policy_in_southeast_asia.pdf - *This paper aims to capture Southeast Asia's current freight transport infrastructure landscape and policy and institutional environment. The primary sources of information are academic and policy literature reviews, including existing national and regional strategic transport plans and any existing international connectivity enhancement initiatives. The paper analyses statistical data to understand the trade patterns and flows between the ASEAN region and the world, as well as the intraregional flows among ASEAN Member States. There is a specific focus on the freight transport sectors in each of the SIPA Southeast Asiastudy’s three key countries: Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand.*
  - <b>  What drives the adoption of electric four-wheelers in India? An investigation of the reasons for and against </b> Furqan A. Bhat, Ashish Verma: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214367X25000341 - *Abstract: "In spite of many countries pushing for electrification of their mobilities by incentivising buyers and manufacturers, penetration rates of electric vehicles are still very less and hence, the electric vehicles represent only a minor proportion of aggregate motorised vehicles. Thus, for fruitful penetration of electric vehicles in developing economies such as India, this study analyses the factors affecting the adoption behaviour of electric vehicles using novel first and second order structural equation models developed based on a modified framework from the behavioural reasoning theory and the valence framework. Unlike the previous studies where the focus has been on certain target groups, this study uses data collected from 1243 “potential electric car buyers” of Bengaluru, India to study the influence of socio-demographic variables and certain latent factors viz. environmental enthusiasm, social values, technological enthusiasm, monetary benefits, environmental benefits, lack of infrastructural readiness, perceived fee, and perceived risks on consumers’ intention to adopt electric four-wheelers. "*
  - <b> Artificial Intelligence in the Road Sector </b> PIARC: https://www.piarc.org/en/order-library/46418-en-Artificial%20Intelligence%20in%20the%20Road%20Sector - *Artificial Intelligence (AI) is emerging as a transformative force in the road sector, offering substantial opportunities to improve safety, efficiency, and sustainability. This study provides a comprehensive assessment of AI's current and future role in road infrastructure planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance.*
  - <b> A Review of Traffic Wave Suppression Strategies: Variable Speed Limit vs. Jam-Absorption Driving </b> Zhengbing He, Jorge Laval, Yu Han, Ryosuke Nishi, Cathy Wu: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.11372 - *Abstract: "The main form of freeway traffic congestion is the familiar stop-and-go wave, characterized by wide moving jams that propagate indefinitely upstream provided enough traffic demand. They cause severe, long-lasting adverse effects, such as reduced traffic efficiency, increased driving risks, and higher vehicle emissions. This underscores the crucial importance of artificial intervention in the propagation of stop-and-go waves. Over the past two decades, two prominent strategies for stop-andgo wave suppression have emerged: variable speed limit (VSL) and jam-absorption driving (JAD). Although they share similar
research motivations, objectives, and theoretical foundations, the development of these strategies has remained relatively disconnected. To synthesize fragmented advances and drive the field forward, this paper first provides a comprehensive review of the achievements in the stop-and-go wave suppression-oriented VSL and JAD, respectively.*
  - <b> U.S. charging infrastructure deployment through 2024 </b> Logan Pierce / ICCT: https://theicct.org/publication/us-charging-infrastructure-deployment-through-2024-apr25/ -*Approximately 204,000 public chargers and publicly accessible workplace chargers for light-duty vehicles had been deployed across the United States as of the end of 2024. From 2019 to 2024, the deployment rate of this non-home charging infrastructure for light-duty electric vehicles (EVs) grew about 25% annually. This is roughly equivalent to estimates of the growth rate needed in annual charging deployment to support continued expansion of the EV market. Charging deployment has not been uniform across the United States, and more chargers have been deployed in states with the most EV sales. Publicly announced investments in charging infrastructure from retailers, automakers, and charging providers sum up to 164,000 new DC fast chargers and 1.5 million new Level 2 chargers in the years ahead. These investments cover a substantial share of the chargers that we estimate will be needed by 2030.*
<b> Publication: Infrastructure Monitor 2024 </b> World Bank: https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/251a7442-debb-470a-9132-f1e829f77f23 - *The Infrastructure Monitor report covers global trends in private investment in infrastructure to inform investors, policy-makers and other practitioners. The objective is to deliver global insights on global infrastructure trends across key topics such as investment volumes, performance, blended finance, and ESG drivers, facilitating the monitoring of private infrastructure investment and its performance. These insights aim to support policymakers, investors, and other stakeholders in developing sustainable, resilient, and inclusive infrastructure while fostering effective partnerships with the private sector. Acknowledging the significant infrastructure data gap — with notable variations in coverage, quality across countries and income groups, and differences in the availability of regional breakdowns — our approach leverages the best available aggregated data from leading infrastructure databases to generate market insights while also providing context on its limitations.*

- <b> General </b>
  - <b> Energy Policy Review - Germany 2025 </b> IEA: https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/7fea0ad0-1cc1-45e9-810b-2d602e64642f/Germany2025.pdf - *"While 
the world has been buffeted by geopolitical and geoeconomic challenges in recent years, Germany has worked hard to accelerate its clean energy transition. This report 
seeks to provide Germany with timely advice on how it can progress towards its energy and climate goals"*
  - <b> International Trade and Investment Agreements and Sustainable Critical Minerals Supply </b> IISD: https://www.iisd.org/publications/report/trade-investment-agreements-critical-minerals -*This report seeks to assess the current state of play by examining the body of trade and investment agreements and asking: To what extent do current and emerging trade and investment agreements reflect a changing balance between the interests of exporting and consuming countries in the supply chains of critical minerals, including economic development and environmental and social objectives? And what are short-term priorities for improving practice?*
  - <b> Private Participation in Infrastructure: What Role for Public–Private Partnerships? </b> Emmanuelle Auriol Stephane Saussier: https://cepr.org/publications/books-and-reports/private-participation-infrastructure-what-role-public-private - *To modernise infrastructure, achieve carbon neutrality, and bolster defence and social services, the European Union must close an annual investment gap of €750–800 billion. Public–private partnerships (PPPs) are frequently proposed as a solution, but their effectiveness is debated. Can they help bridge the funding shortfall, or do they introduce inefficiencies and risks related to contract renegotiations? This report analyses data and literature, develops a theoretical framework, and conducts empirical assessments to derive key insights for the effective design and implementation of PPPs.* 

- <b> New learning opportunities </b>
  - <b> Data Fundamentals for Sustainable Mobility </b> Free, 5-week video-based online course by TUMI Data: https://transformative-mobility.org/multimedia/data-fundamentals-for-sustainable-mobility/


### March <a name="March"></a>

- <b> Data and statistics </b>

  - <b> OECD Trade Facilitation Indicators - Monitoring Policies up to 2025 </b> OECD: https://www.oecd.org/en/publications/oecd-trade-facilitation-indicators_fd6f27dc-en.html?adestraproject - *This publication provides an overview of the efforts made to expedite the movement, release, and clearance of goods at the border in 163 economies. Progress on trade facilitation – as measured by the OECD Trade Facilitation Indicators (TFIs) – is occurring in all regions as countries seek to ensure that global supply chains remain efficient, adaptable, and responsive to evolving patterns of trade. Border agency co-operation is the top area of progress, yet remains the hardest to further improve. Further efforts are also needed to close the gaps between establishing regulatory frameworks for trade facilitation and their implementation in practice, particularly when automating documents and processes. Going further, increasing efficiencies through simplified and streamlined border processes remains a critical issue for promoting competitiveness and economic growth through trade costs reductions.*
  - <b> Mobility in Germany (MiD) - Survey 2023 </b> BMDV: https://www.mobilitaet-in-deutschland.de/pdf/MiD2023_Kurzbericht.pdf *Mobility in Germany (MiD) is a nationwide survey of households on their everyday traffic behaviour on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Digital and Transport (BMDV). It was already collected in 2002, 2008 and 2017. Similar surveys were carried out in 1976, 1982 and 1989 under the name "KONTIV" (Continuous Survey on Transport Behaviour). The survey in the current MiD study was conducted from April 2023 to July 2024. The data are now available. (German language only - but figures etc easy to understand)* 
  
- <b> Urban mobility </b>
  - <b> Public transport funding and financing: A best practice guide for transport agencies, operators and cities </b> C40: https://www.c40knowledgehub.org/s/article/Public-transport-funding-and-financing-A-best-practice-guide-for-transport-agencies-operators-and-cities - *This report presents examples of best practices and a non-exhaustive list of recommendations which cities and transport authorities can use to improve the state of public transport funding and financing, while also continuing to make progress towards their transport emissions reduction targets.*
  - <b> A spatial-temporal dynamic attention based Mamba model for multi-type passenger demand prediction in multimodal public transit systems </b> Shao, Zhiqi, Xi, Haoning
Hensher, David A., Wang, Ze, Gong, Xiaolin, Gao, Junbin: https://ses.library.usyd.edu.au/handle/2123/33604 - *Abstract: "Predicting multi-type passenger demand, such as for adults, seniors, pensioners, and students, is essential for improving the operational efficiency, equity, and sustainability of multimodal public transit (PT) systems. However, traditional demand prediction models often struggle to capture the complex spatial-temporal variability inherent in diverse socio-demographic groups. To address this gap, we propose a novel spatial-temporal dynamic attention-based state-space model, i.e., STDAtt-Mamba, tailored for multi-type passenger demand prediction in multimodal PT systems."*
   - <b> Incorporating Informal Transport in Mobility Planning </b> ITF: https://www.itf-oecd.org/incorporating-informal-transport-mobility-planning -*Drawing on case studies from several regions, this report provides insights into how decision makers can maximise the societal benefits of informal transport while limiting its negative externalities. It also explores the various forms and business models associated with informal transport, and how these influence engagement with public authorities. The study examines potential benefits for marginalised communities and pathways to transform the sector to reduce congestion while improving safety, working conditions and sustainability.*
   - <b> Chennai’s Urban Mobility Transformation </b> Ollivier, Gerald; Srinvasan, Shyam, editors // World Bank: https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/3c32562f-6f44-408a-8294-2af464592d7b - *Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu, is the fourth largest city in India and a hub for commerce, culture, and education. This compendium explores how cities can address complex urban mobility challenges using the city of Chennai, India as an example. The compendium showcases Chennai’s achievements in laying the foundation for improved mobility while also discussing existing and emerging challenges. In doing so, the compendium aims to stimulate dialogue and offer insights that policymakers and practitioners can use for tackling similar challenges in their cities*
  - <b> Is fare-free public transport effective in improving air quality? Evidence from Fuzhou, China </b> Yuan Liang, Donggen Wang: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136655452500081X - *Abstract: "Fare-free public transport (FFPT) programs are gaining increasing popularity worldwide as a policy tool to mitigate the negative externalities associated with automobile usage. However, evidence regarding their effectiveness in reducing air pollution, a major automobile externality, remains limited. In this study, we empirically examine the effect of FFPT programs on air quality in Fuzhou, a provincial capital city in China, based on a quasi-experimental design. Using difference-in-differences models, we find that Fuzhou’s FFPT program reduces fine particulate (PM2.5) concentrations by 0.332 µg/m3 (2.1 %) in the short run. Furthermore, the program leads to an increase of 129,486 rides (49.8%) in daily subway ridership. Back-of-the-envelope calculations indicate that the health benefits brought by the FFPT program through air quality improvements, including reduced mortality and healthcare expenditures, amount to about 3.09 billion Chinese yuan (or 478.92 million US dollars) annually, which is six times the loss of fare revenue. These findings highlight the potential of fare-free public transport as a sustainable urban transport policy in urban China and contribute to a better understanding of its cost-effectiveness.*
  - <b> A lifeline for the disconnected: A longitudinal study of a cable car's impact on accessibility, satisfaction, and leisure activities </b> Luis A. Guzman,  
Juan Esteban Sanchez, Victor A. Cantillo-Garcia: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X25000721?dgcid=author - *Abstract: "[...] The results indicate a significant increase in accessibility, satisfaction with public transport, and participation in leisure activities among the treatment group following the implementation of the cable car. However, women experienced a smaller increase in accessibility and expressed lower satisfaction with public transport, potentially due to their caregiving roles and concerns about safety and harassment. These findings underscore the important social and potential economic impacts that transport interventions can have on populations. Public investments of this nature are typically challenging to evaluate through social control trials, but the knowledge generated from this type of experimental evaluation could be highly valuable for policymakers.*
  - <b> Why do cars get a free ride? The social-ecological roots of motonormativity </b> Ian Walker, Marco te Brömmelstroet: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959378025000172 -*Abstract:"Motonormativity is a shared bias whereby people judge motorised mobility differently to other comparable topics. This works against societies addressing climate and public health crises effectively. A social-ecological explanation has been suggested for the phenomenon, in which motonormativity is shaped by people’s environments, but this has not been tested. Here we used a large international sample (N = 2035) and novel within-participants testing to show, for the first time, at least two environmental pathways linked to judgement biases: one related to people’s social surroundings and linked with their explicit views on transport, and a separate, more implicit pathway related to higher-level structural influences such as nationality, and living in rural areas. Additionally, respondents dramatically underestimated public support for non-motorised transport relative to their own, a pluralistic ignorance effect likely reflecting another facet of motonormativity. The social-ecological explanation, with its nested environmental influences, helps explain the ‘stickiness’ of automobility, and implies change will be most likely when multiple facets of a person’s social, physical and cultural surroundings align in supporting non-motorised mobility.*
  - <b> Design Codes for Health and Wellbeing </b> Tibbalds, TCPA, TRUUD, and Henley Business School, with support from UDL: https://www.qolf.org/what-we-do/design-codes-for-health-and-wellbeing/ -*"It provides practical advice for embedding health and wellbeing into the design coding process, ensuring that places support healthier lives for everyone. Design codes set expectations for the design of buildings, spaces, and places. They help create high-quality developments by providing a structured framework that planning authorities, developers, and communities can use to shape future growth."*
  - <b> Strategic sustainability assessment of rideshare and automated vehicles using the analytical hierarchy process (AHP) </b> Mark Muller, Gonçalo Homem de Almeida Correia, Seri Park, Yimin Zhang, Brett Fusco, Ross Lee: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210539525000513?dgcid=coauthor - *Abstract: "New mobility concepts such as Mobility as a Service (MaaS) are emerging as potential solutions to move people more sustainably in an increasingly urbanized world. Planning for this multi-modal mobility requires a whole system approach (STEEP - social, technical, economic, environmental, and political) to evaluate alternative future scenarios and address varied stakeholder concerns. A strategic planning tool was selected that can model alternative scenarios for how urban mobility systems may evolve over time. A sustainable mobility scorecard was defined, comprised of individual metrics generated from the tool's output. The Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) was selected and applied to generate stakeholder weightings from an online survey of U.S. transportation planning professionals.  [...]"*
  - <b> From Car-Dependent to Public Space Enthusiast: How can a typology of attitudes help to understand social acceptance of street space reallocation projects? </b> Julia Schreibmüller, Simone Aumann, Sebastian Preiß, Julia Kinigadner: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198225000491 - *Abstract: "Reduced car ownership and use as well as public space reallocation are understood as a relevant part of a transition towards sustainable mobility and livable cities. Despite frequent protest following low-car interventions and the importance of acceptance for a successful transition, there is limited understanding of the social acceptance of street space reallocation measures. This research identifies types of attitudes towards temporary street space reallocation measures on the neighborhood level to develop a better understanding of residents’ social acceptance and the underlying explanatory factors. Using a coding frame, interview notes with residents of two neighborhoods in Munich were qualitatively analyzed and grouped into types based on similar characteristics and combinations of characteristics. In-depth interviews were conducted later to refine the types and identify acceptance drivers and barriers. [...]*
  - <b> Applying Spectral Clustering to Decode Mobility Patterns in Athens, Greece </b> Eirini Andrinopoulou, dPanagiotis G. Tzouras: https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/15/7/3419 - *The limited availability of mobility data makes it challenging to model demand, especially its spatiotemporal variations. Simultaneously, traditional transport modeling tools often rely on less disaggregated approaches, leading to gaps in understanding. To overcome these limitations, this study introduces the spectral clustering method to uncover major demand patterns considering various transport modes. It focuses on Athens, Greece, and utilizes a set of 1347 reported trips.*
  - <b> Data-driven optimization for drone delivery service planning with online demand </b> Aditya Paul, Michael W. Levin, S.Travis Waller, David Rey: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136655452500136X - *Abstract: *This study [...] develop[s] an innovative data-driven optimization approach to solve the drone delivery service planning problem with online demand. Drone-based logistics are expected to improve operations by enhancing flexibility and reducing congestion effects induced by last-mile deliveries. With rising digitalization and urbanization, however, logistics service providers are constantly grappling with the challenge of uncertain real-time demand. This study investigates the problem of planning drone delivery service through an urban air traffic network to fulfill dynamic and stochastic demand. Customer requests – if accepted – generate profit and are serviced by individual drone flights as per request origins, destinations and time windows.*
  - <b> Effectiveness of interventions for modal shift to walking and bike riding: a systematic review with meta-analysis </b> Lauren Pearson, Matthew J. Page, Robyn Gerhard, Nyssa Clarke, Meghan Winters, Adrian Bauman, Laolu Arogundade, Ben Beck: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01441647.2025.2480292#abstract -*Abstract: "Identification of priority interventions to support modal shift to walking and bike riding is challenged by the myriad of interventions available, and a lack of synthesised evidence for what types of interventions are most effective. With increasing investments in active travel, there is substantial demand for synthesised evidence of efficacy between intervention types. This systematic review aimed to measure the effectiveness of interventions to increase active travel with a primary outcome of modal shift."*
      
- <b> Social issues </b>
  - <b> Measuring transport poverty with a mixed-methods approach. A comparative case study of the German cities Berlin and Hamburg </b> Christoph Aberle, Stephan Daubitz , Oliver Schwedes, Carsten Gertz: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966692325000316 - *Abstract: "This mixed-methods study examines transport poverty in Berlin and Hamburg, combining GIS-based spatial analysis of public transport (PT) service levels with qualitative interviews of 40 welfare recipients about their transport experiences. The research reveals that low-income residents do not have worse absolute access to PT, but per-capita service is poorer due to high population density. This highlights inequities where crowded transport systems diminish service quality. The interviews also show that high PT fares, before the introduction of the €58 “Deutschlandticket,” had been a major barrier, forcing individuals to choose between transport and other essential needs like food and housing. This financial constraint limits mobility, employment, and social interaction. The study’s integration of GIS analysis and personal interviews provides a comprehensive view of transport poverty, capturing both systemic issues and individual coping strategies. The findings suggest a typology of seven mobility types among low-income residents, offering policymakers a framework for targeted interventions. Recommendations include fare reductions, improved per-capita services in dense areas, and enhanced support for vulnerable groups to address both systemic inequalities and financial barriers, advancing a transport equity agenda that promotes social inclusion."*
  - <b> Roadblocks of polarization: Interpretive mechanisms of opposition to a speed limit policy on German highways </b> Lotte Grünwald, James Patterson: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214629625000908? - *Abstratc: "Social polarization can generate opposition to climate policy action but how exactly this occurs is often assumed rather than explicated. Unpacking this influence is important for understanding why oppositional responses to climate policy arise among mass publics. We analyze interpretive mechanisms by which social polarization leads to policy opposition in response to a proposed speed limit on highways in Germany. We employ an abductive process-tracing approach to posit and empirically scrutinize possible interpretive mechanisms of opposition, drawing on secondary data from multiple arenas of public discourse: news media (newspapers), online debate (internet forum posts), and political representation (plenary minutes, party programs, resolutions, public statements by representatives)."*
  - <b> Incorporating principles of justice in transport evaluation: A case of suburban train projects in Santiago de Chile </b> Hans Werner, Juan Antonio Carrasco, , 
Ignacio Tiznado-Aitken, Giovanni Vecchio: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S096669232500095X - *Abstract: *The growing interest in the literature on addressing justice and equity in transportation has spurred the need for specific evaluation methodologies. This study proposes a comprehensive methodology for incorporating justice principles in evaluating transportation projects and applies it to a railway case study in Chile. The proposal seeks to measure the impact of implementing specific projects on regional transport justice. This work represents a unique contribution to the literature. To our knowledge, it is the first documented experience attempting to incorporate justice principles developed by Martens (2017) into railway transport projects. It emphasizes standardizing critical processes, such as data acquisition, group and opportunity characterization, and determining appropriate sufficiency thresholds.*

- <b> Climate and environment </b>
  - <b> Less emissions or less freight? Conflicting narratives for sustainable logistics in Norway </b> Rafael Rosales: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221462962500091X  - *Abstract: "Logistics is a vital yet energy-intensive sector and policies for sustainable logistics require cooperation between public authorities and businesses. However, public authorities and businesses may have different perceptions of what sustainable logistics entails. Research on logistics has typically either addressed strategies in private firms or investigated public sector plans and goals. This paper examines how ‘sustainable logistics’ is operationalised differently between public and business narratives based on three ‘grand narratives’: decarbonisation, collective logistics and low-mobility society. [...]*
  - <b> Is air/high-speed rail integration the panacea to curb the impact of aviation on climate change? The case of Frankfurt Airport </b> Frédéric Dobruszkes: https://journals.open.tudelft.nl/ejtir/article/view/7477 - *Abstract: "This paper revisits the concept of air/high-speed rail (HSR) integration in the specific case of congested airports, in which airport slots for (super) short-haul flights are freed by replacing them with high-speed trains. Freed slots are then likely allocated to longer flights, which leads to an increase in GHG emissions induced by flights from/to the airport into question. Such an unexpected effect is investigated through the case of Frankfurt Airport, where the HSR infrastructure was designed to connect smoothly with the airport. The ex post investigation isolates the time window during which airport capacity is stable. It confirms the increase in aviation climate impact. This illustrates that air/HSR integration is not always a relevant solution to curb the impact of aviation on climate change."*
  - <b> Enhancing urban resilience: Managing flood-induced disruptions in road networks </b> Giuseppe Salvo, Ioannis Karakikes, Georgios Papaioannou, Amalia Polydoropoulou, Luigi Sanfilippo, Alberto Brignone: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198225000624 - *Abstract: "Emergency preparedness is essential to ensure public safety during disasters. Effective emergency planning requires robust response scenarios, especially for critical infrastructure like road networks. This paper aims to enhance the resilience of road infrastructures and ensure reliable network availability under adverse conditions, such as extreme weather events. By focusing on flood-induced disruptions, we present a novel, data-driven approach that combines a dynamic microsimulation model developed in Dynasim with real-time traffic data from the TomTom portal. Conducted in Palermo, Italy, this study assesses the impacts of different emergency management strategies on urban mobility, providing insights into congestion, rerouting dynamics, and operatioThis manual sets out ways to improve procedures for collecting, investigating, and analyzing road crash data in the 11 Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Program countries to support informed decision-making and boost road safety.*nal limitations at critical intersections during flood events. The study’s results guide the development of a comprehensive emergency mobility plan with adaptive traffic management strategies, which can be used by public safety agencies to implement effective traffic control measures in real-time."*
    
- <b> Transport infrastructure </b>
  - <b> CAREC Road Crash Investigation Manual </b> ADB/CAREC: https://www.adb.org/publications/carec-road-crash-investigation-manual - *This manual sets out ways to improve procedures for collecting, investigating, and analyzing road crash data in the 11 Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Program countries to support informed decision-making and boost road safety.*
  - <b> MoGERNN: An inductive traffic predictor for unobserved locations </b> Qishen Zhou, Yifan Zhang, Michail A. Makridis, Anastasios Kouvelas, 
Yibing Wang, Simon Hu: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0968090X25000841 - *Abstract: "Given a partially observed road network, how can we predict the traffic state of interested unobserved locations? Traffic prediction is crucial for advanced traffic management systems, with deep learning approaches showing exceptional performance. However, most existing approaches assume sensors are deployed at all locations of interest, which is impractical due to financial constraints. Furthermore, these methods are typically fragile to structural changes in sensing networks, which require costly retraining even for minor changes in sensor configuration. To address these challenges, we propose MoGERNN, an inductive spatio-temporal graph model with two key components: (i) a Mixture of Graph Experts (MoGE) with sparse gating mechanisms that dynamically route nodes to specialized graph aggregators, capturing heterogeneous spatial dependencies efficiently; (ii) a graph encoder-decoder architecture that leverages these embeddings to capture both spatial and temporal dependencies for comprehensive traffic state prediction. "*
  - <b> The economic impact of transport infrastructure: a review of project-level vs. aggregate-level evidence </b> Timo Välilä: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01441647.2025.2476012#abstract - *Abstract: "This article aims to assess how well the economic impact of transport infrastructure is understood. Analyses of large samples of individual investment projects based on data in the so-called Flyvbjerg database have documented systematic construction cost overruns and first-year traffic demand shortfalls. They have interpreted these findings as being indicative of negative social welfare consequences of typical transport infrastructure investment projects, but that interpretation has been challenged on methodological grounds. The evidence base of ex post social cost–benefit analyses is growing and it, too, has challenged the suggestion that transport infrastructure projects destroy social welfare. Overall, it seems fair to conclude that our understanding of the project-level social welfare consequences of transport infrastructure is improving but remains far from conclusive. In contrast, aggregate-level quantitative meta-analyses provide robust results of a significant and positive relationship between transport infrastructure and economic activity at the level of regions or countries, especially in the long run and at higher levels of geographical aggregation. These aggregate-level results imply that project-level analyses should indeed consider the entire life cycle of projects, not just construction and the first year of operation, and that they should also acknowledge the presence of network effects as well as wider economic impacts – as difficult to measure and controversial as they are."*
  - <b> Catching up on Digital Port Infrastructure for Africa </b> SSATP / World Bank: https://www.ssatp.org/publication/catching-digital-port-infrastructure-africa   - *This SSATP working paper examines the urgent need for digitalization of Africa’s port infrastructure in light of the International Maritime Organization's (IMO) mandatory Maritime Single Window (MSW) requirement, effective January 1, 2024. Despite this global mandate, many African countries remain in early stages of compliance, hindered by institutional, legal, and operational challenges. Drawing on interviews with maritime stakeholders and lessons from early adopters such as Ghana and Egypt, the paper outlines a pragmatic roadmap for MSW implementation. It provides a taxonomy of port digital systems, a stepwise strategy toward port call optimization, and a detailed implementation checklist tailored to the African context. Through coordinated policy action, stakeholder engagement, and targeted capacity building, African countries can leverage MSWs to enhance trade facilitation, improve port performance, and drive regional integration. This paper contributes practical guidance to policymakers, port authorities, and development partners supporting Africa’s digital transformation in the maritime sector.*
   - <b> Mapping Electric Vehicle Policy for Indian States: Case Study of Maharashtra </b>  Elisabeth le Claire, Ernst-Benedikt Riehle, Fanny Tausendteufel, Nibedita Dash, Suraj Kanojia // NDC Transport Initiative for Asia (NDC-TIA): https://changing-transport.org/publications/mapping-electric-vehicle-policy-for-indian-states/ - *The publication “Mapping Electric Vehicle Policy for Indian States: Case Study of Maharashtra” provides a detailed analysis of Maharashtra’s EV policy (2021-2025) while offering a framework for designing effective state-level EV policies across India. It examines policy strengths, gaps, and implementation challenges, presenting recommendations based on international best practices. The study adds value by providing a structured, lifecycle-based approach to state EV policy design. It highlights how Indian states can formulate future-ready EV policies, ensuring long-term market sustainability, supply chain resilience, infrastructure readiness, and regulatory balance. It serves as a blueprint for accelerating EV adoption while aligning with India’s climate and economic objectives.*
   -<b> The impact of electric cars on travel behaviour segments: Insights from Norway </b> Ioannis Kosmidis: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361920925001130 - *Abstract: *Clustering travellers based on their characteristics and attitudes allows to design more tailored and effective transport policies. Past studies often associated higher environmental awareness with lower car use, assuming that groups showing a mismatch experience a dissonance. However, the development of electric cars (EVs) could have introduced a disruption in this assumption. This hypothesis is tested a Latent Class Analysis of travel behaviour and attitude data of commuters from Nord-Jæren in Norway for 2019 (n = 741) was performed. Three distinct latent classes of commuters have been identified, two consisting of dedicated car users and one of multimodal travellers. The main difference between the first two groups is whether they use an EV. This study suggests that in contexts with high EV deployment, higher environmental awareness should not necessarily be associated with lower car use or higher use of alternative options, and neither should this phenomenon be considered a dissonance.*
    - <b> The future drives autonomously </b> (*Die Zukunft fährt autonom*) BMDV Germany: https://bmdv.bund.de/SharedDocs/DE/Publikationen/DG/die-zukunft-faehrt-autonom.html - *Germany is becoming more and more digital – and this also applies to transport and mobility. Autonomous and connected driving will play a central role in this in the future. With the strategy for autonomous driving in road traffic, the German government wants to further advance this technology and take advantage of its enormous opportunities.*
    - <b> Asia and the Pacific's Transport Infrastructure and Investment Outlook 2035 </b> Asian Transport Outlook: https://asiantransportobservatory.org/analytical-outputs/asia-transport-infrastructure-investment-needs/ - *This report analyses data from the Asia-Pacific economies to answer the question: how much will the Asia-Pacific region need to invest in transport infrastructure over the next decade? Building on ATO’s Asian Transport Outlook 2030 — published in 2022 — which analysed various aspects of transport in Asia from a regional perspective, this latest report incorporates developments towards constructing investment needs up to 2035. It estimates that the annual average transport infrastructure investment needs would triple in 2020-2035 as compared to the level of investments in the period 2000-2020.*
    - <b> Environment and climate protection in logistics - Potential of environmentally orientated logistics concepts for reducing emissions from freight transport (PULK) </b> (*Umwelt und Klimaschutz in der Logistik - Potenziale umweltorientierter Logistikkonzepte zur Reduzierung der Emissionen des Güterverkehrs (PULK)*) UBA: https://www.umweltbundesamt.de/sites/default/files/medien/11850/publikationen/32_2025_texte.pdf - *This research report shows specific measures that can be taken to support environmental and climate protection in logistics-related value creation. The evaluation of the measures makes it clear that alternative drives in combination with photovoltaics on hall roofs and the installation of heat pumps can make a considerable contribution to climate protection. However, numerous other measures for increasing efficiency in transport, handling and storage, which were compiled and evaluated in the final report, also contribute to climate protection - from efficient temperature control in logistics properties to towing kites for ocean-going vessels. The research report is aimed at companies, politics, administration and society and presents structured and comprehensive measures for environmentally-orientated logistics.*
    - <b> Guidebook on Machine Learning Techniques for Road Quality Monitoring </b> ADB: https://www.adb.org/publications/guidebook-machine-learning-techniques-road-quality - *This publication highlights opportunities to harness geospatial data and machine learning algorithms to monitor rural roads efficiently to support connectivity.*

- <b> General </b>
  -  <b> Asian Economic Integration Report 2025: Harnessing the Benefits of Regional Cooperation and Integration </b> ADB: https://www.adb.org/publications/asian-economic-integration-report-2025 - *The report examines how integration has significantly impacted trade, global value chains, foreign direct investment, finance, migration, remittances, and tourism, and highlights that a renewed focus on regional cooperation could cushion external shocks. Modernizing trade and investment agreements, enhancing regional financial arrangements, and advancing digitalization could help drive economic prosperity, bridge the digital divide, and navigate challenges in the coming decade*
  -  <b> Handbook Mobility and Society - Socio-scientific Transport and Mobility Research </b>  *(Handbuch Mobilität und Gesellschaft - Sozialwissenschaftliche Verkehrs- und Mobilitätsforschung)* Weert Canzler, Juliane Haus, Andreas Knie, Lisa Ruhrort: https://link.springer.com/referencework/10.1007/978-3-658-37804-2 - *Abstract: "This open access handbook provides an up-to-date overview of the social science research landscape on the topic of mobility and transport. It makes clear what constitutes the specific social science perspective on the topic and how this differs from other disciplinary approaches (such as transport planning or transport economics). The social and academic debate on mobility and transport has so far been dominated by economic-individualistic perspectives on the one hand and planning-technical solutions on the other. It is only recently that sociological and political science perspectives have become increasingly prominent in the debate. This handbook therefore aims to bring together the consolidated knowledge of social science mobility research and make it accessible in a compact form."*
  -  <b> Transport Transitions: Advancing Sustainable and Inclusive Mobility </b> Proceedings of the 10th TRA Conference, 2024, Dublin, Ireland - Volume 2: Sustainable Transport Development: https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-031-85578-8 - *This is an open access book. It gathers the proceedings of the 10th edition of Transport Research Arena (TRA 2024), held on 15-18 April, 2024, in Dublin, Ireland. Contributions cover a wide range of research findings, methodological aspects, technologies and policy issues that are  currently reshaping the transport and mobility system in different parts of Europe. Bridging between academic research, industrial developments, and regulations, this book offers a comprehensive review of the state-of-the art in transportation, with a special emphasis on topics concerning digital transition in transport, and inclusive and sustainable mobility alike. This is the second volume of a 6-volume set.*
  -  <b> Modelling Sustainable Transport – An Open Data Approach to Model Mode Shift Towards Net Zero </b> TU Dresden, Stefan Huber & Iwan Porojkow: https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-85578-8_23  - *The contribution presents a transport demand model based on open data and freely available information. The model is based on the classic sequential four-step model structure but runs on microscopic scale using disaggregate data. It includes the modes ‘walk’, ‘cycle’, ‘car’ and ‘public transport’. Various open data sources and information are used to estimate and run the model, such as OpenStreetMap data and freely available census and postal data, freely accessible information (e.g., mobility indicators) from publications of national and urban household surveys on traffic behavior or freely available information on transport costs. The result of the study is a disaggregate microscopic transport model for passenger transport. The proof of concept reveals a high initial model accuracy and its responsiveness to different measures.*
  -  <b> Proceedings of The World Bank Transforming Transportation conference </b>: All sessions: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLH5ymkqZ_8N-YAHEfAYbz42ryUeKtd3w4


### February <a name="February"></a>

- <b> Data and statistics </b>

- <b> Urban mobility </b>

  - <b> Urban Transport State of Play Presentations </b> Asian Transport Observatory: https://asiantransportobservatory.org/analytical-outputs/urban-state-of-play-presentations/ - *Urban State of Play presentations give an overview of the transport sector in the concerned urban center by presenting historic trends as well as outlooks in some cases for key topics covered by the ATO such as transport infrastructure, activity and services, access and connectivity, road safety, climate change, air pollution and economic impact of the transport sector. Apart from data the State of Play presentations also give an overview of existing policies, relevant targets and policy instruments* New:
    - Phnom Penh
    - Bengaluru
    - Kochi
    - Jakarta
    - Kathmandu
    - Karachi
    - Lahore
    - Peshawar
    - Port Moresby
    - Davao City
      
  - <b> Unpacking mobility cultures: a review of conceptual definitions and empirical approaches </b> Dario Stolze,Thomas Klinger &Sonja Haustein: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01441647.2025.2454414#abstract - *While “Mobility Culture” is an emerging concept in transport science and policy, it is often defined and applied in different ways. The authors conducted a systematic literature review focusing on the definitions of the concept and how it has been approached empirically. It found that definitions of Mobility Culture are heterogeneous, often indirect and implicit, or missing entirely. We assigned papers to five definition groups based on similarity: (1) Objective and subjective characteristics, (2) subjective-only characteristics, (3) social groups and communities, (4) normative-sustainable notions of future transportation, and (5) papers lacking definitions. Among empirical papers, we identified three broader approaches: Comparative (e.g. city typologies or pre-and-post relocation studies), single-culture (e.g. place-specific mode choice, local discourses) and intervention studies.*
  - <b> Trip generation dynamics under the introduction of shared mobility </b> Vasiliki Kalliga, Santhanakrishnan Narayanan, Constantinos Antoniou: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966692325000262 - *The travel behavior of individuals is significantly influenced by the built environment and travel facilities, impacting trip frequency, destination, and duration. This study aims to explore how these effects vary across different socioeconomic groups, particularly considering gender differences, and how individuals engage with state-of-the-art transport modes such as shared vehicles and bicycles during various stages of their life cycle.*
  - <b> The effect of ease of travel on travel behaviour and perceived accessibility: A focus on travel to university campus </b> Jonas De Vos, Long Cheng, Yuerong Zhang, 
Kailai Wang, Milad Mehdizadeh, Mengqiu Cao: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136984782500035X?via%3Dihub - *Ease of Travel (EoT), referring to people’s travel skills and motivations, and available travel options and quality can influence how people travel and how easily they can reach out-of-home activities. This study explores the new concept of EoT and analyse its underlying structures using a sample of 2,593 students and staff members of University College London (UK).*
  - <b> Day-to-day dynamics in two-sided ridesourcing markets </b> Arjan de Ruijter, Oded Cats, Hans van Lint // Delft University: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/21680566.2024.2439987#d1e158 - *"To understand why ridesourcing markets may be prone to evolve towards potentially socially undesirable equilibrium states, we conceptualize the network effects present in ridesourcing provision. In addition, we propose an agent-based model that allows simulating the effect of market conditions and platform strategies on system performance, accounting for such network effects. This day-to-day model captures sequential decentralized processes characterizing both sides of the two-sided ridesourcing market, i.e. information diffusion, platform registration, platform participation, and learning based on experience. We apply the model on a case representing Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Our simulation results suggest that a profit-maximizing ridesourcing platform may trade-off market transaction volume for higher earnings on successful transactions, a strategy that is harmful to the interests of travellers and drivers, and possibly of (very) limited benefit to the platform."*
  - <b> Ambiguity in state-owned land property rights increases transaction costs in China’s transit-oriented development projects </b> Dongsheng He, Jinshuo Wang, , 
Guibo Sun: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264837725000341 - *"This paper provides compelling evidence that the ambiguity in state-owned land property rights increases transaction costs in China’s transit-oriented development (TOD) projects. The constitution defines the state as the de jure (legally defined) owner of urban land, but tiers of local government share the de facto (practically controlled) land property rights; this ambiguity complicates land use right transfer for TOD. Through expert interviews, document analysis, and case studies in Guangzhou, we identified three critical issues. First, ambiguity in de facto land property rights has led district governments to relocate the metro depot site from a profitable plot suitable for metro scheduling and property development to land plots that are less advantageous and far away from the station. Second, the coexistence of land allocation and leasing approaches under state ownership discouraged an optimised land assembly for the TOD project. Rigid acquisition sizes designated in land allocation for infrastructure discouraged coordination and prolonged negotiations between the district government and the metro company. Finally, the district government faced a disproportionate fiscal responsibility compared to their land leasing share from the municipal government."*
  - <b> Questioning mobility as a service: Unanticipated implications for society and governance </b> Kate Pangbourne, Miloš N. Mladenović, Dominic Stead, Dimitris Milakis: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856418309601?via%3Dihub - *"In this paper we focus on the development of a new service model for accessing transport, namely Mobility as a Service (MaaS) and present one of the first critical analyses of the rhetoric surrounding the concept. One central assumption of one prevalent MaaS conceptualization is that transport services are bundled into service packages for monthly payment, as in the telecommunication or media service sectors."
  - <b> High Volume Transport Applied Research Programme: Compendium </b> HVT // FCDO: https://transport-links.com/hvt-publications/high-volume-transport-applied-research-programme-compendium - *"The High Volume Transport Applied Research Programme (HVT) provides a new body of research focused on Africa and South Asia, to help inform the decisions of policy-makers and planners and make road and rail transport greener, safer and more accessible, affordable and inclusive and to ultimately make good investment decisions that will help drive economic and social development. This compendium highlights this new body of research. Through our core themes we explore the outcomes of research and share key insights that have progressed knowledge in transport in Africa and South Asia. The full list of research outputs and links to further reading are in the back of this report."*
   - <b> How Munich Gets Around – The New Figures - The Mobility Behavior of Munich's Residents – First Results from the SrV Study 2023 </b> City of Munich: https://muenchenunterwegs.de/content/3099/download/2025-02-07-pk-mobilitatsverhalten-final-pressemappe.pdf - *Munich's residents have rediscovered their enthusiasm for walking: In 2023, 33 percent of all trips were made on foot—nine percentage points more than in 2017. The share of trips made by bicycle also increased during this period (up by three percentage points). Public transport usage in 2023 nearly returned to pre-pandemic levels, while car usage declined significantly (from 34 to 24 percent).*
   - <b> Rail Transit & Population Density - Comparing and ranking 250 cities around the world </b> https://schoolofcities.github.io/rail-transit-and-population-density/ - *Maps of major rail transit lines and stations (rapid transit, regional rail, LRT) overlaid onto population density for 250 of the most populated urban regions around the globe.*
   - <b> Built environment and travel: Tackling non-linear residential self-selection with double machine learning </b> Florian Nachtigall, Felix Wagner,  
Peter Berrill, Felix Creutzig: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361920925000033 - *Abstract: "Understanding how the built environment influences travel is key to low-carbon urban planning. However, previous cross-sectional studies lack a realistic operationalization of residential self-selection that accounts for its non-linear nature, limiting its applicability to urban planning. We propose a double machine learning (DML) approach that accounts for nonlinearities in residential self-selection and captures non-linear moderating effects. Using travel diaries of 32,201 Berlin residents, we estimate the built environment’s impact on per capita travel-related CO2 emissions. Our results indicate that neglecting nonlinearities overestimates this impact by 13%–18%, inflating the built environment proportion by 13%pt. Age, income, and car ownership also nonlinearly moderate the built environment’s effect, with the effect being largest for middle-aged, high-income, car-owning households, a novel finding. Applying the method to urban planning reveals a 43%pt emissions reduction potential for 64,000 planned Berlin housing units, highlighting the need for evidence-based urban planning to effectively mitigate CO2 emissions in cities."*
  - <b> Viable business models for city logistics: exploring the cost structure and revenue streams of fourteen European cases </b> Konstantina Katsela: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352146524003053 - *"This paper examines the role of the business model in city logistics, specifically focusing on cost structures and revenue streams. City logistics aims to manage urban goods movement while balancing environmental and societal impacts with economic development. The complexity of this field necessitates effective management, and scholars recognize the business model as a valuable tool for capturing system components and predicting changes. While the value proposition, revenue streams, and customer relationships are acknowledged as core components, there is limited understanding of cost structures and revenue streams. To address this gap, qualitative and empirical data from 14 European city logistics projects were analysed. The findings highlight the importance of integrating cost structures and revenue streams into the business model for sustainable and financially viable city logistics initiatives. This research enhances our understanding of business models in city logistics and offers insights for practitioners and policymakers involved in urban freight management."*
  - <b> RATP - Mobility trends report: a compass for 2030 </b> RATP: https://www.ratpdev.com/sites/default/files/annexes/communiques/RATPDev_Leaflet_MobilityTrendsReport_EN.pdf - *8 trends based on  insights from over 50 interviews with international experts across 10 countries.*
  - <b> Electrifying Mexico City's BRT System </b> *(Electrificando el Sistema BRT de la Ciudad de México)* TUMI: https://transformative-mobility.org/multimedia/electrificando-el-sistema-brt-de-la-ciudad-de-mexico/ - *This report explores the electrification of the Metrobús BRT system, focusing on its impact on drivers and transport workers. Key Findings: a) Improved working conditions with quieter and smoother buses, b) Reduced fatigue and musculoskeletal issues for drivers, c) Increased professional development opportunities*
  - <b> Planning, transport, and healthy ageing in Asia </b> Guibo Sun, Charles Musselwhite: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214140525000271 - *Abstract: "High-density built environments in Asian cities and regions such as Hong Kong and Tokyo have significantly influenced the travel behaviours and health outcomes of older adults. Rapid urban development has led to substantial changes in transport systems, often making travel behaviour complex and, at times, overwhelming for older populations. The rapid growth of ageing populations in these cities presents major public health challenges that demand in-depth research and evidence-based solutions. [...] This paper addresses the unique opportunities and challenges, including large-scale transport infrastructure interventions, health impact assessments, causal inference, and planning and policy recommendations, to support sustainable urban development and improve transport planning for the health and well-being of ageing populations in Asia and beyond."*
  - <b> Germany - Pedestrian Strategy </b> *(Fußverkehrsstrategie)*: https://bmdv.bund.de/SharedDocs/DE/Publikationen/StV/fussverkehrsstrategie.pdf?__blob=publicationFile - *The Pedestrian Strategy is intended to strengthen pedestrian traffic as an equal component of modern and environmentally friendly mobility. The focus is on safety, attractiveness and accessibility of pedestrian traffic. The strategy provides the states and municipalities responsible for pedestrian traffic with recommendations for action to improve the conditions for pedestrian traffic in Germany.*
  - <b> Netherlands: Guidelines for urban nodes and residential areas of the future </b> Ministry of Housing and Regional Planning Netherlands - *"Many challenges are coming together around the train stations and public transport hubs in the Netherlands: housing, mobility transition, space for employment and facilities, climate adaptation and energy. The Urban Nodes Guide discusses how to do this in the area of four square kilometres around the station (15 minutes walk/cycle). In this updated version, an interactive assessment framework has been added that provides insight into which steps in the design process for integrated area development around a station are needed and how the design and layout principles from this guide can be used in this process. It thus provides an overview of how to get started with spatial quality in an area development in the sphere of influence of a station."*
    - Guide to Urban Nodes: A Broader Perspective https://www.ruimtelijkeordening.nl/documenten/publicaties/2024/05/08/handreiking-stedelijke-knooppunten
    - Guide to Residential Areas of the Future: Shaping Post-War Neighbourhoods in Transition: https://www.ruimtelijkeordening.nl/documenten/publicaties/2024/05/08/handreiking-woonwijken-van-de-toekomst  
  - <b> Crime-associated inequality in geographical access to education: Insights from the municipality of Rio de Janeiro </b> Steffen Knoblauch, Ram Kumar Muthusamy, Maya Moritz, Yuhao Kang, Hao Li, Sven Lautenbach, Rafael H.M. Pereira, Filip Biljecki, Marta C. Gonzalez, Rogerio Barbosa, Daniel Veloso Hirata, Christina Ludwig,  
Maciej Adamiak, Antônio A. de A. Rocha, Alexander Zipf: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264275125001180?via%3Dihub - *"Education is a fundamental right, supported by initiatives like Education for All (EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Despite progress, full educational access remains challenging, particularly in highly criminal areas.
This paper examines the impact of crime on school access in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro. Using ancillary data and geospatial artificial intelligence (GeoAI), we downscaled official police crime records to street level. By considering different levels of crime tolerance in school path choices, we simulated how crime can force students to walk longer distances to avoid violence.
Our findings indicate a 48.60 % average increase in travel time to the closest school for students whose shortest routes intersect with high-crime areas. This adjustment reduces mean crime exposure by 44.10 % and maximum exposure by 81.94 %. Both individual crime risk aversion and no-go areas of criminal disputes significantly (p 0.05) impacted educational access. Estimating street-level crime exposure was challenging due to spatial bias in official and crowdsourced crime reporting. These methods and insights are crucial for improving educational access in high-crime areas, providing a better understanding of barriers to equitable education, and being applicable to other cities and accessibility studies for various societal needs."*
  - <b> Berlin - Road safety program </b> City of Berlin/Germany: https://www.berlin.de/sen/uvk/mobilitaet-und-verkehr/verkehrspolitik/verkehrssicherheit/verkehrssicherheitsprogramm/ - *On 11.02.2025, the Senate adopted the Berlin 2030 Road Safety Programme. The aim is to steadily and sustainably reduce the number of traffic accidents with fatalities and serious injuries by 2030 compared to the base year 2019. In the long term, the state of Berlin, together with the citizens, is striving to come as close as possible to the guiding principle of 'Vision Zero'.*
  - <b> Understanding the uneven use of rental e-scooters and implications for equity: Evidence from England’s largest e-scooter trial </b> Hannah Budnitz, 
Xiao Li, Helen Morrissey, Tim Schwanen: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213624X2500029X?via%3Dihub - *"This article uses a transport poverty framing and a dataset of 3.6 million e-scooter trips taken over 13 months in Bristol to investigate the uneven sociodemographic and spatial patterns of rental e-scooter use. We find that, holding all else equal, more e-scooter trips are taken from areas with larger shares of younger (under 35), black and Asian individuals. However, there are fewer e-scooter trip origins from areas of greater deprivation in Bristol. This suggests that while younger, Black, and Asian populations may be more likely to adopt or have access to e-scooters as a mode of transport, fewer e-scooter trips from areas of greater deprivation indicate potential barriers to access or adoption in these communities."*
  - <b> From pilot to policy: Examining the transition towards institutionalized practices in freight curbside management </b> Laura Palacios-Argüello, Juan Pablo, Castrellon, Ivan Sanchez-Diaz: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X25000629 - *"Streets are contested urban public spaces due to their limited availability. While they serve various functions, the needs of certain uses—such as freight—often have been overlooked in space allocation policies affecting urban livability. Recently, freight curbside management has emerged to address these conflicts, allowing service and delivery vehicles to better use street space, contributing to cities’ sustainability targets. Although pilots testing freight curbside interventions are a first step for policymakers to evaluate the effectiveness of these interventions, the transition from pilot to established practices remains underexplored. Therefore, the aim of this research is to understand the success and failure factors that influence the institutionalization process of interventions tested in freight curbside pilots."*
  - <b> Addressing Gaps in Mongolia’s Public Transport Complaints System </b> ADB: https://www.adb.org/publications/mongolia-public-transport-complaints-system - *The brief suggests building a positive approach to complaints, tackling sexual harassment in public transport, and improving communication about the complaints system. It also highlights the creation of a code of practice for handling complaints, along with training for the PTD, which can serve as a guide for other transport departments in enhancing service quality and management systems.*
  

- <b> Social issues </b>
  - <b> Productive exclusion: Accessibility inequalities and informal employment in Bogotá </b> Daniel Oviedo, Luis A. Guzmán, Nicolás Oviedo-Dávila: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016718525000089?dgcid=coauthor - *Public transport provision has historically been biased against less affluent neighbourhoods, making access to jobs more costly and difficult for a substantial segment of the low(er)-income population. This research explores the distribution of accessibility to formal and informal employment in Bogotá, Colombia. Building on geocoded travel and household characterisation data for the city and potential accessibility metrics, it presents evidence of the contribution of public transport to social and spatial inequalities in accessibility for individuals in different spatial, economic, and social categories and the resulting mobility and accessibility inequalities such a distribution entails.* 
  - <b> Assessing justice in sustainable mobility transitions: narratives from transport policies in Jakarta </b> Isti Hidayati, Wendy Tan: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/1523908X.2025.2452923#abstract - *This article proposes an analytic and evaluation framework for capturing different narratives of injustice resulting from three transport policies aiming for a sustainable mobility transition in Jakarta: (1) traffic restriction policy, (2) integrated public transport, and (3) improvement of walking and cycling infrastructures. Using content analysis of news media to identify how these policies are perceived by and affect various segments of the population, the findings revealed that a broader scope of injustice is experienced by the low-income populace, including those with ‘forced’ motorcycle ownership and captive public transport users.*
  - <b> Addressing Barriers to Women’s Participation in Transport : Global, ECA, and MENA Perspectives </b> World Bank: https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/099010925132542721/pdf/P506086186091904719bd91942a8efc6448.pdf - *This report explores the key challenges to women’s employment in the transport sector and provides recommendations for how stakeholders can tackle gender gaps and increase women’s representation in the workforce, with a particular focus on skilled technical and managerial roles. It offers an assessment of the role of women in transport worldwide and provides a series of regional snapshots of women’s employment in the sector.*
  - <b> Content analysis of media coverage of road collisions and road safety in Africa </b> science Africa with support from WHO and Bloomberg Philanthropies:  https://www.who.int/news/item/04-02-2025-new-study-reveals-vital-insights-into-road-safety-news-coverage-in-africa - *The report shows that the press in Africa can play an essential role in promoting safety and injury control by increasing the media’s role in injury prevention through improved dialogue between public health and media practitioners*
  - <b> Socio-spatial segregation and human mobility: A review of empirical evidence </b> Yuan Liao, Jorge Gil, Sonia Yeh, Rafael H.M. Pereira, Laura Alessandretti: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0198971525000031?via%3Dihub - *"This literature review focuses on three critical questions: (a) What are the strengths and limitations of segregation research incorporating extensive mobility data? (b) How do human mobility patterns relate to individuals' residential vs. experienced segregation levels? and (c) What key factors explain the relationship between one's mobility patterns and experienced segregation?"*
  - <b> Socioeconomic characteristics of drivers versus pedestrians in pedestrian crashes </b> Antonio Giron, Xiaohan Gu, Robert J. Schneider: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S259019822400294X?via%3Dihub - *Crash study compares the characteristics of drivers with the pedestrians who they struck:
Disparity 1: adult drivers often crash into children. Disparity 2: drivers from higher-income tracts crash into pedestrians from lower-income tracts.*
 
- <b> Climate and environment </b>

  - <b> Roadmap to zero: The pace of Indonesia’s electric vehicle transition </b> Josh Miller, Jeanly Syahputri, Dale Hall, Aditya Mahalana, and Francisco Posada // ICCT: https://theicct.org/publication/pathways-and-policies-to-achieve-net-zero-road-transport-in-indonesia-by-2060-feb25/ - *"Indonesia’s transportation sector is at a transformative moment. On-road vehicle stock grew by an average of 5% annually from 2015–2024 and the country is exploring pathways to transition to zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) in line with its goal of reaching net-zero emissions by 2060. The wide variability in the technical characteristics, uses, and emissions across vehicle types means that Indonesia’s ZEV transition will be different for each vehicle category. To help, this paper presents ambitious-but-feasible timelines for the transition to zero-emission two- and three-wheelers, four-wheelers (cars and light commercial vehicles, which are vans and light trucks), buses, and medium and heavy trucks in Indonesia."*
  - <b> Understanding the Status Quo: Regulatory Pathways for Vehicle Efficiency in Thailand </b> GIZ: https://changing-transport.org/publications/understanding-the-status-quo-regulatory-pathways-for-vehicle-efficiency-in-thailand/ - *This scoping study is a foundation assessment by the Introducing Measures, Pathways, and Roadmaps for Optimising Vehicle Efficiency and Electrification (IMPROVE) project. The study aims to support Thai policymakers in selecting the best suited regulatory instruments to enhance vehicle efficiency in one of the world’s leading automotive production bases such as Thailand.*
  - <b> Benchmarking Sustainable, Low-Carbon Transport in Low- and Middle-Income Countries Through a Novel Indicator Assessment </b> Lewis M. Fulton, Nikola Medimorec, Teodora Serafimova, Genevivie Ankunda, Pierpaolo Cazzola, Jacob Teter, Vera-Marie Andrieu, Oliver Lah, Alvin Mejia: https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/17/4/1657 - *Abstract: "The Transport Decarbonisation Index (TDI) is a novel indicator-based diagnostic toolkit designed to help low- and middle-income countries benchmark their surface transport systems’ readiness for sustainability and decarbonisation. The TDI employs 30 indicators, classified into eight dimensions covering sustainable, low-carbon transport. The dimensions were identified using a four-phase approach. Through pilot testing in 12 countries across Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, the TDI benchmarks transport performance, enabling policymakers to prioritise actions to reduce emissions and enhance transport sustainability. While the pilot countries scored relatively well based on the defined ranges and thresholds on indicators such as per capita transport greenhouse gas emissions and finance, they performed less well on public transport availability and electrification. The pilot phase revealed significant gaps for African countries in freight transport activity data and highlighted the need for improved data collection. Additionally, several metrics, including equity and informal transport, were not readily available. The TDI can be a valuable tool for benchmarking performance and informing policy decisions by offering a nuanced understanding of key transport dimensions and policy options. Although the TDI provides insights for policymaking, it is not a standalone solution and requires further analysis and stakeholder engagement for effective implementation."*

- <b> Transport infrastructure </b> 
   - <b> Improving Transport Connectivity for Food Security in Africa: Strengthening Supply Chains </b> World Bank : https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/19910ae0-f215-403a-89e4-efe1759e65bc -*"This report provides a detailed analysis of the supply chains of key food commodities inAfrica and sheds light on how transport deficiencies affect production, distribution, and imports and ultimately, food security across the continent. While many studies have been carried out to explain the persistent food insecurity problem in Africa, the report is the first to use a supply chain approach to provide comprehensive view how transport, logistics, and storage affect food security. The analysis uses the World Bank’s in-house Freight Flow and Transport Choice Model (FlowMax) to explore the movement of food between production and consumption including global trade. The model tracks the flow of four essential commodities (namely Maize, Cassava, Wheat, and Rice) which provide almost half of Africa’s caloric intake, to provide insights how weaknesses and gaps in the supply chain affect the flow of these commodities within a country, between countries, and with overseas markets."*
   - <b> The Deepening Red Sea Shipping Crisis: Impacts and Outlook </b> World Bank: https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/41ca0bf3-f51a-4684-b3a9-624508af31ad -*"The Red Sea crisis has emerged as a critical flashpoint of the conflict in the Middle East, upending global trade and maritime transport, port activity in the MENA region, and ecological balance of the Red Sea. The MENA Economic Policy Prosperity team, in collaboration with the DEC Data Lab, has been monitoring the crisis from the outset. Their initial analysis was published in May 2024 in MENA FCV Economic Brief No.1. In this Brief, we provide an update nearly a year after the crisis began, offering an expanded analysis and reflections on the highly uncertain outlook."* 
   - <b> The long journey towards a shift to rail in the European long-distance passenger transport market </b> Oded Cats: https://www.nature.com/articles/s44333-025-00025-9 - *The European long-distance passenger transport market is rapidly changing. There is a striking discrepancy between the relevance of long-distance travel for emission reduction goals and the lack of knowledge to support its design, planning and policy making. A conceptual representation of this market is provided, and four key scientific challenges are identified and discussed along with a brief review of the state-of-the-art, related knowledge gaps and a corresponding research agenda.*
  - <b> High-resolution multisensory traffic data in traffic control systems </b> *(Hochaufgelöste multisensorielle Verkehrsdaten in der Streckenbeeinflussung)*  Federal Highway and Transport Research Institute / Germany: https://bast.opus.hbz-nrw.de/opus45-bast/frontdoor/deliver/index/docId/3071/file/V388+BA+Gesamtversion.pdf
  - <b> The potential and limits of the distance-based road user charging system in developing countries: Empirical evidence from Namibia </b> Naville Geiriseb, 
Smart Dumba: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352146524003259 - *The study results showed that the road user charges, particularly the fuel levy is set too low to generate sufficient revenue to meet the optimal funding scenario for the road network in Namibia. In addition, the study found that the introduction of a Distance-Based RUCS (DBRUCS) on the primary road network in Namibia with private sector participation is potentially feasible and could help capture some of the costs of road use that are currently not captured by the road user charges.*
  - <b> EV-Ready India: Unplugging Barriers with Wireless EV Charging </b> OMI Foundation: https://olawebcdn.com/ola-institute/Unplugging_Barriers_with_Wireless_EV_Charging.pdf - *This issue brief explores the potential of wireless electric vehicle charging systems (WEVCS) in addressing critical challenges in land use, scalability, and user experience. It provides a comprehensive overview of the technology’s benefits, its applicability to India’s unique context, and actionable strategies for policy and pilot programmes to accelerate its adoption. The brief uses secondary research from global contexts and insights from expert interviews to analyse and present key trends, challenges, and opportunities.*
  - <b> Tendering railway public service obligation contracts : a balance sheet </b> Florence School of Regulation: https://cadmus.eui.eu/handle/1814/77904 -*This Policy Brief summarises the experiences of European countries in addressing the challenges of tendering, including: the subject of the contracts (optimal size), duration, progressive timetable for tendering, access to rolling stock, human resources, exemptions from the tendering obligation.*
  - <b> Ukraine -  Fourth Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment (RDNA4) </b> February 2022 - December 2024  (World Bank, 2025): https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/099022025114040022 - *As of December 31, 2024, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to have profound physical, socioeconomic, and environmental impacts, which will be felt for generations. This fourth Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment (RDNA4) - undertaken jointly by the World Bank Group, the Government of Ukraine, the European Commission, and the United Nations, with support from other partners—takes stock of almost three years of the ongoing invasion, estimating damage and losses along with recovery and reconstruction needs for 10 years. Beyond the physical and financial impacts that are more readily quantified, the RDNA4 provides a qualitative description of how people’s lives have been dramatically altered since February 2022. RDNA4 builds on the previous three Rapid Damage and Needs Assessments (RDNA1, RDNA2, and RDNA3), which respectively covered the first three months, first year, and the first 22 months.*
  - <b> Road Safety Profiles 2025 </b> ATO: https://asiantransportobservatory.org/analytical-outputs/roadsafetyprofiles/ - *The ATO road safety profiles offer insights into the road safety in 28 Asia-Pacific countries by utilizing road safety related data from various sources and policy information extracted from a range of documents.*
  - <b> Drivers’ perceptions of improving official information and road rules for distracted driving: Enhancing content, design, and delivery </b> Sina Rejali, Sherrie-Anne Kaye, Natalie Watson-Brown, Teresa Senserrick, Oscar Oviedo-Trespalacios: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1369847825000592 - *"Distracted driving continues to be a significant risk to road safety.[...] The results suggested a need for improved presentation of information, with future distracted driving content suggested to be presented visually, along with more targeted messaging for high-risk drivers such as young drivers. Further, social media, short training, and outdoor media were perceived by participants as the most effective delivery mechanisms for distracted driving resources. The findings provide valuable guidance for policymakers in establishing and communicating information and road rules for distracted driving.*
  - <b> Better Roads, Better Off? Evidence on Upgrading Roads in Tanzania </b> World Bank: https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/8fc1b30a-e143-4a65-8338-044737134687 - *"Spatial isolation is considered to be one of the main determinants of poverty. Therefore, many transport investments are undertaken with the stated objective of poverty reduction. This paper evaluates the effect of a Tanzanian program that rehabilitated 2,500 km of major roads on rural livelihoods. The analysis uses a large set of variables describing household behavior to provide a complete picture of the adjustments. The identification combines a household fixed effects strategy with propensity score matching. Some damaging effects of the program are found on the rural population in the two years following the intervention: the price of rice decreases; households reallocate labor away from agriculture and provide more wage work, but the increase in wage income does not compensate for the loss in agricultural income. Nor do households seem to be benefiting from the fall in the price of rice at the consumption level. These results are consistent with rural households facing increased competition due to reduced transportation costs."*
  - <b>  Electric truck adoption and charging development: Policy insights from a dynamic model </b> Zeinab Raoofi, Morteza Mahmoudi, Anna Pernestål: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361920924004723 - *The results show that increasing subsidies for charging stations leads to a considerable rise in electric truck adoption, while investments in vehicle technology maturity are the most cost-efficient when financial resources are constrained. By modelling policy interventions endogenously, the study highlights the dynamic impact of policymaking on accelerating the transition to sustainable road freight transport.*
  - <b> State-Owned Enterprise Reform Handbook </b> ADB: https://www.adb.org/publications/state-owned-enterprise-reform-handbook - *The publication provides practical guidance for improving the accountability and oversight of the SOEs that play a key role in sectors such as energy, finance, transportation, and water. Focused on policymakers, regulators, and SOE managers, it addresses restructuring, privatization’s risks and benefits, ensuring competitive neutrality, widening access to finance, and improving the transparency and efficiency of the organizations that are central to the region’s green transition.*
 

- <b> General </b>
  - <b> Trend Report for Planners </b> American Planning Association: https://planning-org-uploaded-media.s3.amazonaws.com/publication/download_pdf/2025-Trend-Report-for-Planners-r1.pdf -*In the fourth Trend Report for planners, crucial developments for the future of spatial planning are highlighted. Although written for American planners, it's certainly interesting for (urban) professionals from other countries as well.*
  - <b> Mobility transition through labs in real-world contexts. The contribution of transdisciplinary approaches in creating sustainable transportation systems☆
Author links open overlay panel </b> Jan-Marc Joost, Martin Lanzendorf, Tonio Weicker: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966692325000444 -*" The results show that transdisciplinary labs are still generally a marginal but growing approach in the field of transportation. They cover a wide range from technology-centred to socio-ecological approaches with varying levels of stakeholder involvement. We highlight the potential of transdisciplinary labs to bridge long-standing participation gaps within transportation planning. Yet, robust evaluation of results within these approaches is limited. This constrains the empirical significance of the results and hinders transferability and scalability."*
  - <b> Project Proposals That Work - From Concept to Action </b> GIZ: https://changing-transport.org/publications/project-proposals-that-work-from-concept-to-action/  - *This toolkit will help you to develop your project proposal and so to successfully turn your project idea into an actionable plan. No matter if you seek funding or want to apply to a call for a research project, in this guide you will find a step-to-step instruction on how to structure your proposal and what to consider for handing it in. The guide is directed at experts in transport and beyond looking for support in creating project proposals from the beginning to the end. It includes a description of often used concepts, a guidance on what to include in your proposal, how to structure and layout it and much more.*   

### January <a name="January"></a>

- <b> Data and statistics </b>

  - <b> Road Safety Annual Report 2024 </b> ITF: https://www.itf-oecd.org/road-safety-annual-report-2024 - *The Road Safety Annual Report 2024 provides an overview of road safety performance for the 40 countries participating in the International Transport Forum’s permanent Working Group on road safety, known as the IRTAD Group. Based on the latest data, the report describes recent road safety developments in these countries and compares their performance against the main road safety indicators.*
  - <b> Passenger and freight transport trends compared around the world </b> ITF: https://www.itf-oecd.org/sites/default/files/passenger-freight-transport-trends-statistics-brief.pdf - *Road freight transport has been steadily gaining ground on other inland transport modes in most countries, based on the latest update of ITF’s Annual Trends in the Transport Sector data. A ten-year comparison reveals that 24 of the 27 countries reporting data saw a relative increase in road transport between 2013 and 2023.* 

- <b> Urban mobility </b>
  - <b< Putting the Passenger First: What Works and What does not Work in Urban Mobility Reforms in Latin America and the Caribbean </b> Gómez-Lobo, Andrés: https://publications.iadb.org/en/putting-passenger-first-what-works-and-what-does-not-work-urban-mobility-reforms-latin-america-and - *The Latin American and Caribbean region offers a rich history of innovative policies and investments in urban mobility. We review some of these experiences with the aim of extracting lessons that can provide guidance to policymakers in the design and implementation of successful urban transport reforms. Special emphasis is placed on users' welfare and how different policies impinge on their interests and behavior. Many reforms have faced difficulties by not considering the consequences of policy initiatives on users' welfare, especially their impact on time costs. Another relevant theme discussed in this document is that modern high-quality transit systems are expensive and fare revenues will generally not be sufficient to fund an ambitious reform. If public funds are not available, it is advisable to reduce the scope and scale of reform. Fortunately, there are many low-cost options to improve urban mobility. Furthermore, some pricing policies can improve mobility while raising revenues at the same time; resources that can then be used to subsidize transit services. While the optimal policy package will depend on the specific circumstances of each city and the available funding, what cannot be overlooked is the interest of users and passengers. Policymakers must always place themselves in their shoes and think through how their intended intervention will affect their travel experience, time and financial cost.*
  - <b> The Right to the Night City: Exploring the Temporal Variability of the 15-min City in Milan and Its Implications for Nocturnal Communities </b> Lamia Abdelfattah, Abubakr Albashir, Giulia Ceccarelli, Andrea Gorrini,Federico Messa, Dante Presicce: https://www.mdpi.com/2073-431X/14/1/22 - *"The needs of night communities and the barriers they face in accessing diverse urban amenities are underexplored in urban planning research. Focus is primarily given to the needs of cultural consumers, frequently overlooking the challenges faced by regular nighttime communities, including night workers. Through a GIS-based analysis, the aim of this research is to shed light on differences in accessibility to core urban services between day and night in the city of Milan. The spatiotemporal analysis was performed using a customized version of the 15-min City Score Toolkit, an open-source, Python-based proprietary tool developed to automate the 15 min access metric estimation. Proprietary Point-Of-Interest (POI) data that were retrieved, sorted and filtered from the Google Places API are used to simulate time-variant walkability maps based on opening hour information contained in the dataset. The research reveals significant differences in walkability potential, both in spatial and temporal terms, and highlights gaps in nighttime service availability. The work presents an innovation on the 15 min city approach that highlights the impact of 24-h urban rhythms on real walkability outcomes. The quality limitations of the Google data are extensively explored in the article, providing further insight into the replicability and scalability of the methodology for future research."*
  - <b> Designing a robust and cost-efficient electrified bus network with sparse energy consumption data </b> Sara Momen, Yousef Maknoon, Bart van Arem, 
Shadi Sharif Azadeh: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0968090X25000245?via%3Dihub - *This paper addresses the challenges of charging infrastructure design (CID) for electrified public transport networks using Battery Electric Buses (BEBs) under conditions of sparse energy consumption data. Accurate energy consumption estimation is critical for cost-effective and reliable electrification but often requires costly field experiments, resulting in limited data.*
  - <b> How would employees commute today if they had the same characteristics as employees in 1980? – Using entropy balancing to decompose changes in observed commuting mode choice over time in repeated cross-sections </b> Nicole Reinfeld, Tobias Hagen: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S096585642400418X?via%3Dihub - *In recent decades, societal, economic, and technological developments have altered commuting behavior in many European and North American regions. Understanding the reasons for observed changes in commuting mode choice is crucial to implementing effective transport policy measures. Changes in commuting mode choice stem from either changing observable characteristics (structure of the population) or variables that are often unobserved for the researcher (such as prices or attitudes). This study contributes to the literature by applying Entropy Balancing for the first time to decompose changes in commuting mode choice over time.* 
  - <b> Two Wheels, Many Rule Books: Compendium of Bike Taxi Policies in India </b> OMI Foundation: https://olawebcdn.com/ola-institute/Two_Wheels_Many_Rule_Books_Compendium_of_Bike_Taxi_Policies_in_India.pdf - *This paper provied an overview of the evolution of bike taxi aggregation, insights into their operational models, and a comparative analysis of state’s approaches to bike taxi regulations. A detailed examination of the regulatory frameworks, including guidelines, notifications, and enforceable rules, is presented, highlighting the key clauses and coverage areas. The document further outlines the State-specific commonalities and variations in regulatory approaches.*
  - <b> Public transport: Status and research priorities for Latin America and the Caribbean </b> Ricardo Giesen, Darío Hidalgo, Raúl Ramos: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2950024925000022 - *The review indicates that researchers in the LAC region have concentrated on researching public transport reforms, on social aspects, like accessibility, equity, and inclusion, on demand, behavior, and user perceptions of public transport, on emissions, externalities, and new technologies. This review suggests that multiple aspects require further analysis to improve quality of public transport services and reduce social, environmental, and financial impacts.*
  - <b> Urban roads and walking: Exploring pedestrian perceptions and experiences in a Sub-Saharan African City </b> Polycap Chesifu Chebe, Lawrence F. Fombe, 
Karel Martens: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2950196225000018 - *The study analyzes residents' perceptions and experiences on two distinct roads in Bamenda, the third-largest city in Cameroon. Using a checklist, it assessed the selected roads for pedestrian-friendly and hostile elements. Thirty participants residing near the roads were interviewed to understand their walking experiences and perceptions of street walkability. Findings reveal poor walking conditions on both roads, which lack essential pedestrian infrastructure. Where present, pedestrian infrastructure is often obstructed by businesses and parked vehicles. Respondents reported walking to be (severely) affected by conflicts with motorized traffic and especially motorcycles, and poor road conditions resulting in dust and mud in dry and rainy seasons respectively. Surprisingly, poor road conditions may also enhance walking, as they reduce vehicle speeds and thus safety risks.*
  - <b> Comparative Analysis of Residential Parking Questions in National Travel Surveys: A Cross-Country Study </b>  Marcel Porschen, Tobias Kuhnimhof // RWTH Aaachen: https://www.mdpi.com/2413-8851/9/1/3 - *Availability and utilization of residential parking locations remain a crucial yet often overlooked aspect of urban planning and policy making. Thus, this study investigates questions about residential parking within National Travel Surveys (NTS) across 49 OECD-affiliated countries. The study used a layered framework, differentiating parking locations by on/off-street, public/private access, proximity to dwellings, and infrastructure type to analyze questions and response options. A document review revealed significant variability in the inclusion of residential parking questions, with only 24 of 49 evaluated countries conducting NTS and only 15 explicitly addressing residential parking locations, often via one question. While questions are often similar, the response options are often ambiguous, sometimes misleading, and vary significantly. Based on the results, the study identifies the following recommendations: (1) adopt and rephrase parking-related questions in new and existing NTS, (2) provide guidance to users on how certain response options are defined, (3) for a more comprehensive understanding of residential parking dynamics, include a question on availability and actual usage, (4) add “National Travel Survey” as a keyword in applicable surveys, and (5) provide easy access to documentation to facilitate data retrieval and international comparison.*
  - <b> Point Based System for Assessing Passenger Level of Service at Public Transport Terminals: A Railway Case Study </b> Sudhanshu Pawar, Anantakrishnan Tandyekkal, , 
Hari Krishna Gaddam: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352146524004526 - *This study emphasises on calculating the passenger level of service (P-LOS) of a railway station using point-based system which takes qualitative and quantitative factors into account. With the proposed method, points for the potential factors were given by passengers through a questionnaire survey was considered for the analysis.*
  - <b> Who is willing to take transit in the future? Older adults’ perceived challenges and barriers to using public transit across Canada </b> Meredith Alousi-Jones, Thiago Carvalho, Merrina Zhang, Isabella Jimenez, Ahmed El-Geneidy: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856425000047 - *Based on the Aging in Place survey conducted in March 2023 (N = 3,551), this research explores the barriers preventing older Canadians (65 and older) from using public transit in their area of residence.* 
  - <b> How Experiments Can Contribute to the Responsible Design of the Local Mobility Transition </b> *(Wie Experimente zur verantwortungsvollen Gestaltung der kommunalen Mobilitätswende beitragen können)* Dr. Franziska X. Meinherz, Dr. Michael Mögele, Jana Heese, Manuel Jung, Dr. Stefanie Ruf, Dr. Alexander Wentland, Technische Universität München: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/ugcPost-7291119140692529152-Ilsw - *The article demonstrates that experiments, in particular, enable a constructive approach to implementation conflicts. With their flexibility, short-term feasibility, and cost-effectiveness, they can complement and enhance the design of long-term infrastructure measures and projects.*
  - <b> Transforming Catalonia’s Mobility System for Net Zero </b> OECD: https://www.oecd.org/en/publications/transforming-catalonia-s-mobility-system-for-net-zero_1cac3681-en/full-report.html - *Guided by the 3 steps of the OECD Systems Innovation for Net Zero process, this report takes a systems approach to identify processes and policy packages able to trigger behavioural change in favour of sustainable modes to reduce emissions while improving well-being in the land passenger transport sector in the region. The term behavioural change is intrinsically linked to the insight from complexity science that individual preferences – and the resulting patterns of behaviour observed over time – are largely determined by the structure of the system in which they are embedded.*
  - <b> Governing mobility hubs in the sustainable urban mobility transition: Dynamics of stability and change </b> Julia Hansel: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X25000320?via%3Dihub - *To date, academic literature on mobility hubs and multimodality has predominantly focused on design and user needs, integration into urban space, and environmental impact. In contrast, this article asks how the governance framework affects the implementation of mobility hub networks. The theoretical approach combines an analysis of governance arrangements with literature on smart mobility governance. This multifaceted analytical framework facilitates the examination of various dimensions and dynamics of the governance arrangements behind mobility hubs.* 
  - <b>Planning Framework for Low Emission Zone (LEZ) in Core Areas of Indian Cities – Final Report</b> Published by High Volume Transport (HVT), January 2025, https://transport-links.com/hvt-publications/planning-framework-for-low-emission-zone-lez-in-core-areas-of-indian-cities-final-report - *This report provides a strategic framework for implementing Low Emission Zones (LEZ) in Indian cities, focusing on air quality improvement, congestion reduction, and sustainable urban mobility*
  - <b> A Step–by–Step Guide for Planning and Designing of Street Vending in Indian Cities </b> Manvita Baradi, Meghna Malhotra // Urban Management Center India: https://umcasia.org/wp-content/uploads/A-Step-by-Step-Guide-for-Planning-and-Designing-of-Street-Vending-in-Indian-Cities_03012025.pdf - *This guide provides insightful strategies for thoughtfully planning street vending spaces, supporting livelihoods, and promoting equity in urban areas in India.*   
  - <b> The configurational dimension in street design guidelines. Findings from a systematic review of international street design guidelines </b> Evgeniya Bobkova, 
Meta Berghauser Pont, Gianna Stavroulaki // Chalmers University of Technology: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/387824131_The_configurational_dimension_in_street_design_guidelines_Findings_from_a_systematic_review_of_international_street_design_guidelines - *The paper presents the systematic review of 48 international street design guidelines and identifies identifying gaps in the way street design guidelines address the configurational dimension of streets.*
  - <b> A quantitative urban model for transport appraisal </b> Daniel Hörcher, Daniel J. Graham, ICL: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5067099 -*This paper builds upon the methodological principles of quantitative spatial economics, an emerging eld within the spatial economics literature, to design an appraisal method that captures the interactions between transport supply and the labour, production and real estate markets.* 

- <b> Social issues </b>
  - <b> Accessibility, Car Dependence and Rural Peripheralization: The Automobility Gap in the Spanish Countryside </b> Jesus Oliva, Luís Camarero: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/soru.12505 - *Disparities in access to opportunities and services often accumulate in peripheral rural areas, contributing to a sense of being left out of prosperity. To bridge this gap, regular commuting to cities where jobs and resources are concentrated has partly replaced emigration, making the private car the key to settling and living in the countryside. However, car dependency reveals important fractures within the rural population. This work examines the relationship between mobility capabilities and life opportunities by analysing the Spanish case. The results underscore the link between automobility deficits and the risk of exclusion. In a context where rural depopulation and gentrification, hypermobility and mobility deprivation coexist, car dependency needs to be addressed beyond a transport problem as a variable of social peripheralization. The conclusions highlight the need for rural policies to address the challenges posed by this issue in the current transitions to greener mobility paradigms and ageing societies.*
  - <b> Health Impacts of Low-carbon Transport in Cities </b> ITF: https://www.itf-oecd.org/health-impacts-low-carbon-transport-cities - *This report promotes a transition to low-carbon mobility that prioritises environmental goals and human well-being. By evaluating low-carbon policy scenarios, the report offers evidence-based recommendations for policy makers to integrate health into transport and urban planning. It features insights to invest in active and public transport infrastructure and equity-centred approaches to urban development. It is a roadmap for creating sustainable cities that are healthier, safer, and more inclusive.*
  - <b> Three-dimensional transport poverty and its socio-demographic and urban density predictors: Spatial regression analyses of neighborhoods in the Amsterdam metropolitan area </b> Thijs Bon, Matthew Bruno, Niels van Oort: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198225000193?via%3Dihub - *This study investigates the relevance of socio-demographic and urban density predictors in relation to transport poverty contributor metrics for neighborhoods in the Amsterdam metropolitan area. Utilizing a spatial econometric framework, it assess the relevance of these predictors across three dimensions of transport poverty: mobility, accessibility, and affordability. Contrary to existing literature, our findings indicate that the demographic factors of gender and younger age are not significant predictors at the neighborhood level. Furthermore, the research identified a correlation between higher urban density and transport poverty.*
  - <b> Fossil fuel subsidy reform, distributive justice and civil unrest </b> Margherita Belgioioso, Edward Newman: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214629624004596 - *This article explores how fossil fuel subsidy reform – widely regarded as being essential for reducing carbon emissions – may contribute to societal instability by generating grievances related to fuel insecurity and perceptions of unfair costs. The article explores the role that ‘distributive justice’ plays as a moderating factor in the relationship between reductions in fossil fuel subsidies and social unrest, based upon a new dataset combining data on fossil fuel subsidies, incidents of energy-related civil unrest, and measures of the equitable distribution of resources within society, covering the years 2015 to 2022. The article finds that fossil fuel subsidy reform increases social unrest in countries where distributive justice is lacking. Finally, the article explores the policy implications of these findings, suggesting that fuel subsidy reform should be accompanied by progressive social measures which not only protect the most vulnerable but also reflect the principle of ‘fairness’.*
  - <b> Women Behind the Wheels: Gendered Nature of Transport-Based Gig Work in South Asia </b> Safetipin, Women Mobilize Women: https://transformative-mobility.org/multimedia/women-behind-the-wheels-gendered-nature-of-transport-based-gig-work-in-south-asia/ - *The gig economy, once niche, has expanded rapidly, reshaping work structures. While it offers flexible opportunities, especially for women, its promise remains largely unrealized in South Asia’s transport sector. While gig work platforms multiplied tenfold between 2007 and 2020, women’s involvement remains low, especially in the Global South from where 80% of the revenue is generated. Safetipin, supported by GIZ through Women Mobilize Women, has undertaken secondary research to identify barriers women face in entering and thriving in the transport-based gig economy across five South Asian countries— India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, and Sri Lanka.*
  - <b> Community Bike Workshops in Australia: Increasing Demand for Cycling Through Mutual Aid </b> Simon Batterburya, Carlos Uxob, Margot Abord de Chatillonc, Stephen Nursed: https://tots.upol.cz/corproof.php?tartkey=tot-000000-0566 - *In this article analyses a small but growing movement of community bike workshops or ‘bike kitchens’ in Australia*

- <b> Climate and environment </b>
  - <b> Moldova Country Climate and Development Report </b> World Bank: https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/b5886ecd-d46b-4d48-a747-19e9326e0e9d - *Moldova’s climate and development challenges are inextricably linked. Weak and volatile growth, high levels of poverty, near total energy import dependence, and a strong reliance on drought-prone agriculture are all symptoms of intrinsic structural vulnerabilities. Climate-smart development policies offer a pathway to address long-standing structural barriers to growth and accelerate convergence with European Union (EU) standards. Renewable energy and energy efficiency scale-up are crucial for improving the country’s energy security but will require substantial investments as well as full implementation of sectoral reforms to accelerate integration with EU energy markets. Adaptation investments are key, not only to manage the impacts of climate shocks, but also to raise productivity in the most vulnerable sectors. Most funding will need to come from the private sector, while public sector investments need to be substantially augmented by development partners. With smart macro-fiscal policies, Moldova has the opportunity and potential to implement these ambitious measures and lay the foundations for sustainable and resilient growth.*
  - <b> Global NDC Template for Popular Transport - Guidance and Recommendations for including Popular Transport into NDCs </b>  Global Network for Popular Transport (GNPT) and Transport for Cairo (TfC) with TUMI’s support: https://transformative-mobility.org/multimedia/global-ndc-template-for-popular-transport/ - *This publication offers comprehensive guidance for integrating popular transport into Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). It highlights the untapped potential of popular transport—a vital mobility mode in low- and middle-income countries—for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, improving resilience, and supporting just transitions. By including actionable strategies, case studies, and recommendations, the template aims to foster sustainable mobility systems while addressing social equity and climate goals.*
  - <b> How well does the 3–30–300 rule mitigate urban flooding? </b> Gianni Vesuviano, Alice Fitch, Danial Owen, David Fletcher, Laurence Jones: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S161886672400459X - *The 3–30–300 rule is a new guideline for urban forestry and urban greening, which is rapidly gaining interest among city planners, international organizations and NGOs. However, the ecosystem service benefits of this new guideline have not been quantified and there has been no research to date on how implementing the 3–30–300 rule may mitigate urban flooding. The study findsthat the creation of new green spaces and tree cover can greatly reduce peak pluvial surface runoff rate at-site, and maintain peak flow reductions of several percent in sub-catchments of several square kilometres, including reductions of over 10 % in some sub-catchments of over 20 km2 in Paris.*
  - <b> Fuel cells: A technical, environmental, and economic outlook </b> Ilham Sebbani, Mohammed Karim Ettouhami, Mouaad Boulakhbar: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772783124000621?via%3Dihub  - *In the pursuit of establishing a sustainable fuel cell (FC) energy system, this review highlights the necessity of examining the operational principles, technical details, environmental consequences, and economic concerns collectively. By adopting an integrated approach, the review research into various fuel cells types, extending their applications beyond transportation and evaluating their potential for seamless integration into sustainable practices. A detailed analysis of the technical aspects, including FC membranes, performance, and applications, is presented.* 
  - <b> Pathways for Low-Carbon Transition in Bangladesh 2025–2050 </b> ADB: https://www.adb.org/publications/pathways-low-carbon-transition-bangladesh - *This report examines business-as-usual and low-carbon scenarios for Bangladesh at the national level and Dhaka at the city level. It outlines the technologies, efficiency measures, and investment costs associated with the low-carbon transition in the country for 2025–2050.*
  - <b> CO2 emission standards to achieve Mexico’s 2030 electrification target for light-duty vehicles </b> Tanzila Khan, Carlos Jimenez, Leticia Pineda, Zifei Yang, Josh Miller, and Arijit Sen // ICCT: https://theicct.org/publication/co2-emission-standards-to-achieve-mexicos-2030-electrification-target-for-ldvs-jan25/ - *The report suggests that the currently adopted Phase 2 standards will not be sufficient to achieve Mexico’s climate and electrification goals. Furthermore, these standards could potentially drive increase in gCO2/km emissions from internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles. Such increase in ICE emissions can lead to 108 million tonnes additional cumulative emissions during 2024-2050, compared to business-as-usual level.*
  - <b> Vision 2050: Update on the global zero-emission vehicle transition in 2024 </b>  Arijit Sen, Jacob Teter, and Josh Miller / ICCT: https://theicct.org/publication/vision-2050-global-zev-transition-2024-jan25/ - *This study updates the annual ICCT assessment of global ZEV policies and market developments, analyzing their impact on projected vehicle sales, energy consumption, and emissions through 2050. In addition to policies in the Baseline scenarios designed in previous studies (Baseline 2021 and Baseline 2023), it evaluates three updated scenarios: a Baseline 2024 scenario incorporating policies adopted through August 2024, a Momentum scenario that includes additional proposed policies and targets, and an Ambitious scenario aligned with Paris Agreement goals. The analysis reveals how recent policy developments have substantially increased projected ZEV uptake and provides insights into remaining gaps with a Paris-compatible emissions trajectory.*
  - <b> The People’s Republic of China First Biennial Transparency Report on Climate Chang </b> Ministry of Ecology and Environment (MEE), PR China: https://unfccc.int/documents/645296
  - <b> European clean tech tracker </b> Simone Tagliapietra, Ben McWilliams, Cecilia Trasi, Ugnė Keliauskaitė, Marie Jugé //Bruegel: https://www.bruegel.org/dataset/european-clean-tech-tracker - *This tracker provides an overview of the main innovation, manufacturing and deployment trends in clean tech in Europe*

- <b> General </b> 
  - <b>  Four scenarios for the Dutch mobility system in 2050 </b> M. Triggianese, Deborah Nas, S.C. van der Spek, S.P. Hoogendoorn, A. Psyllidis, N. van Nes, Holger Caesar, Wijnand Veeneman, M.Y. Maknoon, B. Atasoy, Joost Ellerbroek, S. Hiemstra-van Mastrigt, N. van Oort, M. Snelder, Roelof Vos, S. Hoogendoorn-Lanser, K. Spoor // TU Delft Mobility Futures: https://research.tudelft.nl/en/publications/tu-delft-mobility-futures-four-scenarios-for-the-dutch-mobility-s - *A multidisciplinary team of TU Delft mobility researchers, known as The Mobilisers, embarked on a journey to explore the future of mobility and how it is embedded in various socio-technological contexts. We developed four radical, yet realistic scenarios for the Dutch Mobility System in 2050, taking into account the Netherlands' position as part of Europe and its role as an international hub.*
  - <b> Understanding worthwhile travel time: An empirical study of travel experiences across transport modes </b> Veronique Van Acker, Yannick Cornet, Dimitris Milakis, 
Eva Malichová, Manuel Ojeda-Cabral: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856424003847 - *The concept of worthwhile travel time (WTT, Cornet et al., 2022) provides insight into how travellers perceive their travel time. Worthwhileness can be linked to multiple domains, including enjoyment, fitness, and productivity. This study leverages the full open dataset collected by the Woorti app, comprising 38,838 validated trip legs in 8 countries, to empirically substantiate the WTT concept across walking, cycling, public transport, and private motorised travel.* - see alos: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01441647.2021.1983067
  - <b> World Economic Situation and Prospects 2025 </b> UNCTAD: https://unctad.org/publication/world-economic-situation-and-prospects-2025 - *The 2025 edition of the United Nations World Economic Situation and Prospects report comes at the mid-way point of a decade that has been characterized by economic turbulence. This report shows that the global economy is finally recovering following a sequence of shocks.*









###
###


Overview/Table of Content: https://github.com/giz-t-hub/Overview

Disclaimer: Findings, interpretations and conclusions expressed in this repository are based on information gathered by GIZ and its consultants, partners and contributors. GIZ does not, however, guarantee the accuracy of completeness of information in this document, and cannot be held responsible for any errors, omissions or losses which emerge from its use. The placement and listing of companies, academia or other stakeholders (or their logos, contact details or other information) in this repository doesn’t mean any endorsement by GIZ or other partners. Users are encouraged to exercise due-diligence in respect to information, offers and proposals.

For more information about our work, please refer to:

- Changing Transport: https://changing-transport.org/
- Transformative Urban Mobility Initiative (TUMI): https://transformative-mobility.org/
- MobiliseYourCity: https://www.mobiliseyourcity.net/

Compiled by / Contact:

Armin Wagner: armin.wagner@giz.de
(as of February 2025)
